hiring on that is getting come on today
I would like to discuss about the BI
CMOS fabrication process so as the name
it says that bi CMOS the complementary
metal-oxide-semiconductor so binding
that is to our bipolar
we can say that so complementary
metal-oxide-semiconductor music
continues and los angeles team was let
us see and look into the fabrication
process now if you see this capture of
your bi CMOS it is having one N one and
one team wants and one NPN BJT that is
bipolar Junction transistor as as you
know the N Mo's application we will are
here it is very easy for us to
understand about the BI CMOS fabrication
process now let us go or into the matter
where we can see the temperature forces
of the fabrication process of your Y C
Mon now whenever we want to start a
fabrication process for that I require a
silicon substrate into which I will be
adding the B type ability to form a
p-type substrate and on the p-type
substrate I am covering it with an also
to protect the surface on the p-type
substrate to further oxidant now to a
window is open to an oxide layer by
using the UV rays and in that window we
are what we are doing here the window
n-type impurities is heavily doped and
we are making a n plus buried layer and
your P type substrate
why we are making is amanda to
accommodate your BJT transistor now on
the top of your p-type substrate I am
growing and entire surface and going AP
AP text which is used to protect your n
plus buried layer and as we have seen so
many steps in the end more fabrication
process the same process after placing
the oxide layer I will be placing a mask
to cause the UV rays and will be
removing this selected areas
by eating process and to form the
windows of the surfaces that I can use I
confirm the transistors in this
particular place now through the two
windows n-type impurities are diffused
into the ring to form a sort of to form
the NL's so one anvil is for your cream
or the other annually is acting as a
connector for your bipolar Junction
transistor now again one more window is
opened here which is used to form your
and most three windows are open towards
the oxide layer in these three windows
three active devices and most females
and in V&V deity are formed now we are
placing the polysilicon layer and again
doing the same also of your UV rays and
we are going to unwanted material
finally on the gate of your N Mo's I am
NOT on the gate of your P Mo's we have a
what we see the polysilicon now as we
know character is already foam here and
forming a base but in doing it we type
substrate enter and will next now I am
diffusing the n-type material cell join
to form an N transistor that is n MOS
transistor and here emitter base and
collector to form a BJT and here I want
a pre diffusion to form a p MOS
transistor and again I am going a layer
of oxide and further doing the window
process so refer the during the UV
resources and the posting the metal
finally forming the N Mo's P Mo's and n
pn BJT transistor which is nothing but
you are by FEMA
so thank you for more video subscribe to
our channel if you like this video
please share with your friends and give
your feedback for money Channel thank
you thank you once again